[website][upgrade] feat: docs migration - transactions (#12085)
apache/pulsar: site2/website-next/docs/txn-use.md

---
id: txn-use
title: How to use transactions?
sidebar_label: How to use transactions?
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Transaction API

> The transaction feature is primarily a server-side and protocol-level feature. You can use the transaction feature via the [transaction API](https://pulsar.apache.org/api/admin/), which is available in **Pulsar 2.8.0 or later**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction feature is primarily a server-side and protocol-level feature. You can use the transaction feature via the [transaction API](https://pulsar.apache.org/api/admin/), which is available in **Pulsar 2.8.0 or higher**. 
```
One more comment, as I know, In pulsar 2.8.0, transaction is not stable feature. Please confirm with eng whether the Pulsar version should be changed.

To use the transaction API, you do not need any additional settings in the Pulsar client. **By default**, transactions is **disabled**. 

Currently, transaction API is only available for **Java** clients. Support for other language clients will be added in the future releases.

## Quick start

This section provides an example of how to use the transaction API to send and receive messages in a Java client. 

1. Start Pulsar 2.8.0 or later. 

2. Enable transaction. 

>     Change the configuration in the `broker.conf` file.

Reviewer: can we choose to change config in `standalone.conf` file? I noticed for batch messages, we can either update transaction configs in `broker.conf` or `standalone.conf` file

    ```
    transactionCoordinatorEnabled=true
    ```

>     If you want to enable batch messages in transactions, follow the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to enable batch messages in transactions, set `acknowledgmentAtBatchIndexLevelEnabled` to `true` in the `broker.conf` or `standalone.conf` file.
```
